I was already using some operators throughout all these examples,
for example when incrementing i or decrementing it. In the next lectures, I'll go through a lot of operators
Javascript offer us us and how to use them.
I'll start with some basic addition operators here
and while this might sound trivial, there are some interesting things amongst them and it's especially interesting
to learn how you can add variables which don't have the same types,
for example string and number.
So I'll generate a variable named a here, which is 5 and a variable b, which is 10
and then I will log a+b.
Well, I'm not going to ask what you think we'll see,
of course we see 15,
now let me add something else here,
I'll add this statement
a += b
and now I'm just printing a.
What do you think we'll see here?
Well we still see 15 but now I change the value of a to be equal to a + b,
so this operator could be rewritten as a + b,
of course this would still yield me 15 here.
So it's a shorthand syntax to quickly add a number plus another number and reassign it to the first
variable here.
It's kind of comparable with a++ which could also be translated a + 1.
This of course is the incremention operator you saw before.
Therefore if I hit run now, we see six because we increased a by one.
What do you think happens if I get rid of this and I change a to be 5.1 and b to be 3.5 or 4.5
and then I print a + b,
what do you think we'll see now?
Of course we see 9.7,
so adding floating numbers works in the same way
but I'll come back to floating numbers in the future since there are some issues with
it,
let's put it that way.
What happens if I set a equal to join and 4.5 equal to us,
what do you now think we'll see here?
Well we see join us, indeed we can add strings like this,
we can add them like numbers and they will be concatenated into one string.
What do you think we'll see if I change b to 3, will we see join 3?
Yes, we will see join 3,
so now a string and a number has been concatenated into one string,
notice that 3 has been cast into a string here.
Now what do you think happens if I change a to be 3 and b to be 'join',
will we see 3 join?
Yes,
this also works the other way around.
Javascript tries to make this work and as it recognizes it can't add both variables in a mathematical
way, it will have a look at the next way it knows, creating strings.
That's an important behavior to have in mind, which makes it of course easy to combine strings and
variables or numbers or whatever.
What happens if I change 3 to true,
so it's a boolean
now, what do you think we'll see now?
True join,
so as with numbers, Javascript also tries to transform booleans into strings.
What happens if I exchange true with an array where I have 1 and 2 inside, what
do you now think we'll see?
1, 2, join,
so even this does work.
Javascript is really clever and trying hard to make it work if we join something with a string.
Now here's an interesting one,
what happens if I set a to 12 and b to '1'
but as a string, what do you think we'll now see?
Well I'm not sure if you expect this but we got 121,
so again Javascript made this all a string,
it did not recognize that this is a number too. What happens if we set b to true?
So now we're trying to add true to 12, remember that true
also seem to be equal to 1,
so what's happening now?
Now we're getting 13, so we can add a number and a boolean operator
since boolean operators can easily be transformed into numbers.
What happens if I add true and true?
Well we get 2 again because true equals 1 if we would try to transform it into a number
and Javascript tries to do that when adding it.
So we can calculate with booleans,
the question of course is if we do want to do that
but it's important to understand how Javascript works behind the scenes.
So back to numbers,
what happens if I try to add null to 12, what will we see now?
Well we see 12,
so null is transferred into zero when using it in calculations.
And if we use undefined, what's happening then?
We get Not A Number because undefined isn't a number and Javascript doesn't transform it into zero or anything
like that,
instead it just recognizes that it can't do this calculation and in such cases, it will return us not
a number to let us know that this calculation doesn't result in anything.
The same is of course true if we set b to be equal to Not A Number
and of course you would rarely do this directly like this
but imagine b is itself the result of another calculation and this calculation might return
Not A Number,
in this case, of course we also get Not A Number as a result of this addition.
So that was a lot of adding numbers or adding stuff
but as I said, I think it's very important to understand how Javascript transforms certain values
and works with values when we're trying to add them together.
That's the reason why I put so much emphasis on this.